>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. ON THE
NEWSHOUR TONIGHT: THE
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT:
THE DAWN OF A NEW ERA.
DAWN OF A NEW ERA. THE STARS
AND STRIPES RETURNS TO
THE STARS AND STRIPES RETURNS
TO HAVANA AFTER 54 YEARS AS THE
HAVANA AFTER 54 YEARS AS THE
U.S. RE-OPENS ITS EMBASSY IN
U.S. RE-OPENS ITS
EMBASSY IN CUBA.
CUBA. THEN, HOW
THE CUBA DEBATE'S
THEN, HOW THE CUBA DEBATE'S
PLAYING ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL
AND IS HILLARY CLINTON STILL THE
AND IS HILLARY CLINTON STILL
THE DEMOCRATIC FAVORITE?
DEMOCRATIC FAVORITE? THE
ANALYSIS OF DAVID BROOKS AND
THE ANALYSIS OF DAVID
BROOKS AND DAVID CORN.
DAVID CORN. THE PBS
STAPLE "SESAME STREET"
THE PBS STAPLE "SESAME STREET"
MEETS A NEW FRIEND: HBO.
WHAT THE MOVE MEANS FOR
CHILDREN'S TELEVISION AND PUBLIC
CHILDREN'S TELEVISION
AND PUBLIC MEDIA.
MEDIA. PLUS, A STORY
"STRAIGHT OUTTA
PLUS, A STORY "STRAIGHT
OUTTA COMPTON."
COMPTON." HOW ONE RAP
GROUP SPOKE TO A
HOW ONE RAP GROUP SPOKE TO A
RACIAL DIVIDE THAT LINGERS TO
RACIAL DIVIDE THAT
LINGERS TO THIS DAY.
THIS DAY. THE STUFF
THAT WE WERE GOING
THE STUFF THAT WE WERE GOING
THROUGH IN THE LATE '80S, EARLY
'90S, IS STILL FRESH IN THE NEWS
'90S, IS STILL FRESH
IN THE NEWS TODAY.
TODAY. THE REALITY
OF HOW WE WERE
THE REALITY OF HOW WE WERE
LIVING AND WHAT WE WERE GOING
THROUGH, NOTHING HAS CHANGED.
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S WORD OF A
NEW ATROCITY AGAINST AN AMERICAN
HOSTAGE BY THE ISLAMIC STATE
HOSTAGE BY THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
GROUP. THE PARENTS
OF KAYLA MUELLER SAD
THE PARENTS OF KAYLA MUELLER SAD
TODAY THAT U.S. INTELLIGENCE
CONFMS SIRHE WAS REPEATEDLY
RAPED BEFORE HER DEATH IN
RAPED BEFORE HER
DEATH IN FEBRUARY.
FEBRUARY. ANOTHER
HOSTAGE HELD WITH HER
ANOTHER HOSTAGE HELD WITH HER
REPORTED THAT THE ISIS LEADER
ABU BAKR BAGHDADI TOOK MUELLER
AS A "WIFE" AND ASSAULTED HER AT
AS A "WIFE" AND ASSAULTED
HER AT A COMPOUND IN SYRIA.
A COMPOUND IN SYRIA. AL-BAGHDADI
DIED IN A U.S. RAID
AL-BAGHDADI DIED IN A
U.S. RAID IN JUNE.
IN JUNE. KURDISH
OFFICIALS IN IRAQ SAY
KURDISH OFFICIALS IN IRAQ SAY
THEY ARE INVESTIGATING CHEMICAL
WEAPONS ATTACKS BY ISIS FORCES.
THEY SAY THE MILITANTS FIRED
CHLORINE GAS MORTAR ROUNDS AT
KURDISH PESHMERGA FIGHTERS.
KURDISH PESHMERGA FIGHTERS. JUST
YESTERDAY, "THE WALL STREET
JUST YESTERDAY, "THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL" REPORTED THAT ISIS
MILITANTS LIKELY USED MUSTARD
GAS AGAINST THE KURDS THIS WEEK.
THE REPORT CITED U.S. OFFICIALS
FOR THE INFORMATION.
FOR THE INFORMATION. THE
DEATH TOLL IN CHINA ROSE TO
THE DEATH TOLL IN CHINA ROSE TO
56 TODAY IN THE FIERY EXPLOSIONS
THAT LAID WASTE TO A MAJOR PORT.
THAT LAID WASTE TO A MAJOR
PORT. AND THERE WAS GROWING
AND THERE WAS GROWING
SPECULATION THAT FIREFIGHTING
CREWS MAY HAVE ACCIDENTALLY
TRIGGERED THE DISASTER IN
TRIGGERED THE
DISASTER IN TIANJIN.
TIANJIN. TOM CLARKE
OF INDEPENDENT
TOM CLARKE OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS HAS THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: TWO DAYS ON, WHAT
LOOK LIKE CONTAINERS APPEAR TO
LOOK LIKE CONTAINERS APPEAR
TO BE STILL EXPLODING IN THE
BE STILL EXPLODING IN THE
BLASTED REMAINS OF TIANJIN'S
BLASTED REMAINS OF
TIANJIN'S INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
INDUSTRIAL ZONE. THE
DESTRUCTION IS ALMOST
THE DESTRUCTION IS
ALMOST ABSOLUTE.
ABSOLUTE. FOUR TON
SHIPPING CONTAINERS LIE
FOUR TON SHIPPING CONTAINERS LIE
SCATTERED LIKE LEGO BRICKS.
THOUSANDS OF CARS.
NOT JUST BURNED.
NOT JUST BURNED. THEIR
ALLOY WHEELS MELTED INTO
THEIR ALLOY WHEELS MELTED
INTO PUDDLES ON THE GROUND.
PUDDLES ON THE GROUND.
INEXPLICABLY, THOSE YARDS AWAY
INEXPLICABLY, THOSE YARDS
AWAY ARE ALMOST UNSCATHED.
ARE ALMOST UNSCATHED. THE
QUESTION EVERYBODY WANTS
THE QUESTION EVERYBODY WANTS
ANSWERED IS WHAT EXACTLY COULD
HAVE CAUSED A BLAST SO POWERFUL?
IT OBLITERATED A TWO-KILOMETER
IT OBLITERATED A
TWO-KILOMETER RADIUS.
RADIUS. PUNCHING HOLES
THROUGH APARTMENT
PUNCHING HOLES THROUGH APARTMENT
BLOCKS, TAKING INTERIOR DOORS
BLOCKS, TAKING INTERIOR
DOORS OFF THEIR HINGES.
OFF THEIR HINGES. BUT THE
QUESTIONS WILL HAVE TO
BUT THE QUESTIONS
WILL HAVE TO WAIT.
WAIT. THE DANGER HAS
NOT YET PASSED.
THE DANGER HAS NOT YET PASSED.
>> SO MANY DIFFERENT MATERIALS
THERE THAT COULD CAUSE CHEMICAL
THERE THAT COULD CAUSE
CHEMICAL REACTIONS.
REACTIONS. DURING THE
DISPOSAL PROCESS,
DURING THE DISPOSAL PROCESS,
EXPLOSIONS COULD OCCUR AT
ANYTIME AND THERE HAVE BEEN
ANYTIME AND THERE HAVE
BEEN NUMEROUS SMALLY.
NUMEROUS SMALLY. >>
Reporter: SPECIALIST ARMY
>> Reporter: SPECIALIST ARMY
CHEMICAL TEAMS ARRIVED TODAY.
THE TEST KITS, SHOULD TELL THEM
WHAT FIREFIGHTERS MAY NOT HAVE
WHAT FIREFIGHTERS MAY NOT
HAVE KNOWN INITIALLY.
KNOWN INITIALLY. CALCIUM
CARBIDE-- STORED AT THE
CALCIUM CARBIDE-- STORED AT THE
SITE-- MAKES FLAMMABLE GAS WHEN
SITE-- MAKES FLAMMABLE GAS
WHEN MIXED WITH WATER.
MIXED WITH WATER.
AMMONIUM NITRATE, KEPT
ALONGSIDE IT, IS HIGHLY
ALONGSIDE IT, IS
HIGHLY EXPLOSIVE.
EXPLOSIVE. IT'S THOUGHT
ATTEMPTS TO FIGHT A
IT'S THOUGHT ATTEMPTS TO FIGHT
A SMALLER FIRE MAY HAVE
SMALLER FIRE MAY HAVE
INADVERTENTLY CAUSED THE
INADVERTENTLY CAUSED
THE DESTRUCTION.
DESTRUCTION. THIS
MOBILE PHONE FOOTAGE
THIS MOBILE PHONE FOOTAGE
CAPTURED THE INITIAL BLAST.
AS THIS CAR REVERSES AWAY 30
SECONDS LATER ITS DASHBOARD
CAMERA CATCHES THE SECOND FAR
MORE POWERFUL EXPLOSION, THEN
VIOLENCE OF ITS SHOCKWAVE.
SO INTENSE, THE NETWORK OF
SENSORS USED TO ENFORCE THE
SENSORS USED TO ENFORCE
THE NUCLEAR BOMB TEST BAN
NUCLEAR BOMB TEST BAN
TRIANGULATED THE BLAST.
DEVICES IN RUSSIA, MONGOLIA,
KAZAKHSTAN AND-- INCREDIBLY--
PALAU, ALL REGISTERED THE
DETONATIONS AS LARGE AS A
MAGNITUDE THREE EARTHQUAKE.
MAGNITUDE THREE EARTHQUAKE. ONE
FIREFIGHTER WAS FOUND ALIVE
ONE FIREFIGHTER WAS FOUND ALIVE
IN THE WRECKAGE LAST NIGHT, BUT
IN THE WRECKAGE LAST NIGHT,
BUT 13 ARE STILL MISSING.
13 ARE STILL MISSING. THIS
EVENING, CHINA'S STATE
THIS EVENING, CHINA'S STATE
COUNCIL ANNOUNCED A NATIONWIDE
INSPECTION OF HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL
INSPECTION OF HAZARDOUS
CHEMICAL STORAGE SITES.
STORAGE SITES. >>
Woodruff: LOCAL OFFICIALS
>> Woodruff: LOCAL OFFICIALS
HAVE SAID SMOKE FROM THE FIRES
IS NOT CONTAMINATING THE AIR,
BUT PEOPLE IN TIANJIN COULD BE
SEEN TODAY WEARING BREATHING
SEEN TODAY WEARING
BREATHING MASKS.
MASKS. EUROZONE
FINANCE MINISTERS MET
EUROZONE FINANCE MINISTERS MET
IN BRUSSELS TODAY AND GAVE FINAL
APPROVAL TO A THIRD BAILOUT FOR
APPROVAL TO A THIRD
BAILOUT FOR GREECE.
GREECE. HOURS EARLIER,
AFTER AN ALL-
HOURS EARLIER, AFTER AN ALL-
NIGHT DEBATE, THE GREEK
PARLIAMENT BACKED THE DRAFT
AGREEMENT DESPITE A REBELLION BY
AGREEMENT DESPITE A REBELLION
BY MEMBERS OF THE RULING PARTY.
MEMBERS OF THE RULING PARTY.
THE DEAL REQUIRES NEW CUTS IN
PUBLIC SPENDING AND TAX HIKES IN
EXCHANGE FOR $93 BILLION OVER
EXCHANGE FOR $93 BILLION
OVER THE NEXT THREE YEARS.
THE NEXT THREE YEARS.
GREECE ALSO GOT RELIEF ON
ANOTHER FRONT AS A CRUISE SHIP
ARRIVED AT THE ISLAND OF KOS TO
EASE THE MIGRANT CRISIS THERE.
THE HUGE VESSEL WILL SERVE AS A
FLOATING SCREENING CENTER AND
TEMPORARY SHELTER FOR THOUSANDS
TEMPORARY SHELTER FOR
THOUSANDS OF SYRIAN REFUGEES.
OF SYRIAN REFUGEES.
THEY'RE AWAITING OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS IN ORDER TO TRAVEL
DOCUMENTS IN ORDER TO
TRAVEL ELSEWHERE IN EUROPE.
ELSEWHERE IN EUROPE. IN
JAPAN, THE PRIME MINISTER
IN JAPAN, THE PRIME MINISTER
TODAY ACKNOWLEDGED THE PAIN HIS
COUNTRY INFLICTED DURING WORLD
COUNTRY INFLICTED
DURING WORLD WAR II.
WAR II. BUT, HE STOPPED
SHORT OF MAKING
BUT, HE STOPPED SHORT OF
MAKING A FRESH APOLOGY.
A FRESH APOLOGY. SHINZO
ABE'S STATEMENT MARKED
SHINZO ABE'S STATEMENT MARKED
SEVEN DECADES SINCE JAPAN
SURRENDERED TO ALLIED FORCES IN
SURRENDERED TO ALLIED
FORCES IN 1945.
1945. >> ON THE
70th ANNIVERSARY OF
>> ON THE 70th ANNIVERSARY OF
THE WAR, I BOW MY HEAD DEEPLY
BEFORE THE SOULS OF ALL THOSE
WHO PERISHED AT HOME AND ABROAD,
I EXPRESS GRIEF AND SINCERE
I EXPRESS GRIEF AND
SINCERE CONDOLENCES.
CONDOLENCES. OVER 80%
OF THE POPULATION WAS
OVER 80% OF THE POPULATION
WAS BORN AFTER THE WAR.
BORN AFTER THE WAR. THESE
GENERATIONS AND THOSE IN
THESE GENERATIONS AND THOSE IN
THE FUTURE WHO HAVE NOTHING TO
DO WITH THE WAR SHOULD NOT HAVE
DO WITH THE WAR SHOULD NOT
HAVE TO CONTINUE APOLOGIZING.
TO CONTINUE APOLOGIZING. >>
Woodruff: RESENTMENT TOWARD
>> Woodruff: RESENTMENT TOWARD
JAPAN'S WAR-TIME ACTIONS STILL
RUNS HIGH IN SOUTH KOREA AND
RUNS HIGH IN SOUTH
KOREA AND CHINA.
CHINA. THE CHINESE
STATE NEWS AGENCY
THE CHINESE STATE NEWS AGENCY
DISMISSED ABE'S STATEMENT TODAY
AS A "TUNED-DOWN APOLOGY".
REPORTS OUT OF ISRAEL SAY POLICE
HAVE STEPPED UP SECURITY AT THE
U.S. EMBASSY AND THE HOME OF
U.S. AMBASSADOR DAN SHAPIRO.
ACCORDING TO THE ACCOUNTS, HE'S
RECEIVED DEATH THREATS OVER THE
RECEIVED DEATH THREATS OVER
THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL.
IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL. A U.S.
STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL
A U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL
WOULD NOT CONFIRM THE REPORTS
WOULD NOT CONFIRM
THE REPORTS TODAY.
TODAY. BUT HE
PRAISED THE ISRAELI
BUT HE PRAISED THE ISRAELI
POLICE, AND SAID: "WE TAKE ANY
THREAT SERIOUSLY AND TAKE
THREAT SERIOUSLY AND
TAKE APPROPRIATE STEPS."
APPROPRIATE STEPS." AND
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, WALL
AND BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, WALL
STREET FINISHED THIS FRIDAY WITH
STREET FINISHED THIS
FRIDAY WITH MODEST GAINS.
MODEST GAINS. THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
ADDED NEARLY 70 POINTS TO CLOSE
ADDED NEARLY 70 POINTS TO
CLOSE JUST SHORT OF 17,480.
JUST SHORT OF 17,480. THE
NASDAQ ROSE 14 POINTS AND
THE NASDAQ ROSE 14 POINTS AND
THE S&P 500 WAS UP EIGHT.
THE S&P 500 WAS UP EIGHT. FOR
THE WEEK, THE DOW AND THE
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW AND THE
S&P GAINED MORE THAN HALF A
S&P GAINED MORE THAN
HALF A PERCENT.
PERCENT. THE NASDAQ
ROSE A TENTH OF A
THE NASDAQ ROSE A
TENTH OF A PERCENT.
PERCENT. STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE U.S. EMBASSY IN CUBA REOPENS
AFTER 54 CHILLY YEARS, A WRAP OF
THE WEEK'S POLITICAL NEWS, WITH
DAVID BROOKS AND DAVID CORN AND
DAVID BROOKS AND DAVID
CORN AND MUCH MORE.
NOW TO AN HISTORIC MOMENT IN
CUBA THIS MORNING, OLD GLORY
BEING HOISTED UP FOR THE FIRST
TIME IN MORE THAN 50 YEARS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
IT WAS SOMETHING NOT SEEN IN
HAVANA SINCE 1961: U.S. MARINES
RAISING THE STARS AND STRIPES AS
THE NATIONAL ANTHEM PLAYED AND A
THE NATIONAL ANTHEM PLAYED
AND A CROWD CHEERED.
CROWD CHEERED. THE AUDIENCE
INCLUDED THE THREE
THE AUDIENCE INCLUDED THE THREE
FORMER MARINES WHO'D LOWERED THE
FORMER MARINES WHO'D LOWERED
THE FLAG, 54 YEARS AGO.
FLAG, 54 YEARS AGO. ALSO
LOOKING ON: JOHN KERRY, THE
ALSO LOOKING ON: JOHN KERRY, THE
FIRST SECRETARY OF STATE TO
FIRST SECRETARY OF STATE
TO VISIT CUBA SINCE 1945.
VISIT CUBA SINCE 1945. HE
USED THE OCCASION TO CALL FOR
HE USED THE OCCASION TO CALL FOR
CHANGE IN A COUNTRY WHERE
THE COMMUNIST PARTY RULES
COMMUNIST PARTY
RULES UNCHALLENGED.
UNCHALLENGED. >> WE
REMAIN CONVINCED THE
>> WE REMAIN CONVINCED THE
PEOPLE OF CUBA WOULD BE BEST
SERVED BY GENUINE DEMOCRACY,
WHERE PEOPLE ARE FREE TO CHOOSE
LEADERS, EXPRESS THEIR IDEAS,
PRACTICE FAITH WITH A COMMITMENT
TO ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTICE.
>> Sreenivasan: LATER, KERRY MET
WITH HIS CUBAN COUNTERPART,
BRUNO RODRIGUEZ, WHO DEFENDED
THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT'S
HUMAN RIGHTS RECORD.
HUMAN RIGHTS RECORD. >> (
translated): CUBA FEELS
>> (translated): CUBA
FEELS VERY PROUD OF ITS
PERFORMANCE
VERY PROUD OF ITS PERFORMANCE
WHEN GUARANTEEING THE FULL
EXERCISE OF INDIVISIBLE,
INTERDEPENDENT, UNIVERSAL HUMAN
RIGHTS, CIVIL RIGHTS, CIVIL
LIBERTIES ON EQUAL FOOTING FOR
LIBERTIES ON EQUAL FOOTING
FOR EACH CUBAN CITIZEN.
EACH CUBAN CITIZEN. >>
Sreenivasan: CUBAN DISSIDENTS
>> Sreenivasan: CUBAN DISSIDENTS
WERE ALLOWED TO ATTEND A FLAG
RAISING AT THE HOME OF THE U.S.
RAISING AT THE HOME OF THE
U.S. CHIEF OF MISSION.
CHIEF OF MISSION. THEY
WEREN'T INVITED TO THE
THEY WEREN'T INVITED TO THE
EARLIER EMBASSY EVENT.
EARLIER EMBASSY EVENT. U.S.
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO-- A
U.S. SENATOR MARCO RUBIO-- A
CUBAN-AMERICAN AND REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE-- BLASTED
THAT DECISION, IN A SPEECH IN
THAT DECISION, IN A
SPEECH IN NEW YORK.
NEW YORK. >> CUBAN
DISSIDENTS HAVE FOUGHT
>> CUBAN DISSIDENTS HAVE FOUGHT
FOR DECADES FOR THE VERY
DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES PRESIDENT
OBAMA CLAIMS TO BE ADVANCING
THROUGH THESE CONCESSIONS THEIR
EXCLUSION FROM THIS EVENT HAS
INSURED IT WILL BE LITTLE MORE
THAN A PROPAGANDA RALLY FOR THE
THAN A PROPAGANDA RALLY
FOR THE CASTRO REGIME.
CASTRO REGIME. >>
Sreenivasan: IN A STATEMENT,
>> Sreenivasan: IN A STATEMENT,
FELLOW REPUBLICAN HOPEFUL JEB
BUSH, THE FORMER GOVERNOR OF
FLORIDA, SAID KERRY'S VISIT WAS:
FLORIDA, SAID KERRY'S VISIT
WAS: "A SYMBOL OF THE OBAMA
"A SYMBOL OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S ACQUIESCENCE TO
ADMINISTRATION'S ACQUIESCENCE
TO CASTRO'S RUTHLESS LEGACY."
CASTRO'S RUTHLESS LEGACY."
KERRY SAID TODAY THAT TALKS ON
"FULL NORMALIZATION" WILL START
NEXT MONTH AND PRESIDENT OBAMA
PLANS TO VISIT CUBA NEXT YEAR.
>> Woodruff: WE HOPED TO HAVE
>> Woodruff: WE HOPED TO
HAVE BLOOMBERG'S NEWS INDIRA
BLOOMBERG'S NEWS INDIRA
LAKSHMANAN JOINING US TO SPEAK
LAKSHMANAN JOINING US
TO SPEAK WITH HARI.
WITH HARI. WE'RE
HAVING TECHNICAL
WE'RE HAVING TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES AND HOPE TO GET TO
DIFFICULTIES AND HOPE TO
GET TO HER IN A MOMENT.
HER IN A MOMENT. THAT
BRINGS US TO THE ANALYSIS
THAT BRINGS US TO THE
ANALYSIS OF BROOKS AND CORN.
OF BROOKS AND CORN.
THAT'S "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS AND DAVID
CORN, WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF
FOR MOTHER JONES AND CONTRIBUTOR
FOR MOTHER JONES AND
CONTRIBUTOR TO MSNBC.
TO MSNBC. MARK SHIELDS IS AWAY.
MARK SHIELDS IS AWAY. YOU
ALREADY HAVE REPUBLICAN
YOU ALREADY HAVE REPUBLICAN
CANDIDATES LIKE MARCO RUBIO, WE
JUST HEARD FROM HIM, JEB BUSH,
SAYING THIS IS A BIG MISTAKE BY
THE OBAMA STRAISMGHTS IS THIS
GOING TO BE AN ISSUE IN THE 2016
GOING TO BE AN ISSUE IN THE
2016 PRESIDENTSLE RACE?
PRESIDENTSLE RACE? >>
NOT IN THE GENERAL.
>> NOT IN THE GENERAL. IF
YOU WANT IN THE REPUBLICAN
IF YOU WANT IN THE REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY, YOU HAVE TO BE PRO
EMBARRING O THAT'S WHERE THE
ELECTORATE IS, BUT UNLIKE ALL
ELECTORATE IS, BUT UNLIKE
ALL PAST ELECTIONS, A, THE
PAST ELECTIONS, A, THE
CUBAN-AMERICAN POPULATION IS NOT
AS BIG, THEY'RE NOT THE MAJORITY
OF HISPANICS, NOT EVEN IN
OF HISPANICS, NOT
EVEN IN FLORIDA.
FLORIDA. SECOND, THIS IS WHERE
SECOND, THIS IS WHERE
GENERATIONAL CHANGE MATTERS A
LOT, OLDER CUBAN-AMERICANS ARE
PRO EMBARGO AND THE YOUNGER ONES
PRO EMBARGO AND THE
YOUNGER ONES NOT MUCH.
NOT MUCH. IT'S EVENLY DIVIDED.
IT'S EVENLY DIVIDED. I HAVE
TROUBLE BELIEVING IT WILL
I HAVE TROUBLE BELIEVING IT WILL
BE A BIG GENERAL ELECTION VIDEO.
>> MARCO RUBIO PUTS HIMSELF AS A
>> MARCO RUBIO PUTS HIMSELF AS
A FACE FOR THE FUTURE, FRESH
FACE FOR THE FUTURE, FRESH
LEADERSHIP, AND TIED TO THE
LEADERSHIP, AND TIED TO
THE POSITION OF THE PAST.
POSITION OF THE PAST.
54 YEARS HASN'T WORKED.
DAVID'S RIGHT.
DAVID'S RIGHT. THERE
IS A TREMENDOUS SHIFT.
THERE IS A TREMENDOUS SHIFT.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE POLLING
COMING OUT OF FLORIDA
INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY, RIGHT
INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY,
RIGHT NOW A MAJORITY OF ALL
NOW A MAJORITY OF ALL
CUBAN-AMERICANS SUPPORT OBAMA'S
POLICY AND IF YOU BREAK IT DOWN
BY AGE, IT'S CLOSE TO 60% FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE THE YOUNGER HALF
TO HAVE THE POPULATION, OR,
INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH, IF YOU
INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH, IF
YOU CAME HERE AFTER 1980.
CAME HERE AFTER 1980. SO
IT'S REALLY JUST THE PEOPLE
SO IT'S REALLY JUST THE PEOPLE
WHO CAME HERE EARLY AND WHO ARE
OWED, WHO MAY BE REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY VOTERS, SAME PLACE,
HOLDING ONTO THE VESTIGES OF
HOLDING ONTO THE
VESTIGES OF THIS POLICY.
THIS POLICY. OTHERWISE,
IT'S GOING TO THE WHY
OTHERWISE, IT'S GOING
TO THE WHY SAID.
SAID. >> Woodruff: EVEN IN THE
>> Woodruff: EVEN IN THE
MARGINS, YOU DON'T SEE IT MAKING
MARGINS, YOU DON'T SEE
IT MAKING A DIFFERENCE?
A DIFFERENCE? >> IF
THERE IS A COMPETITIVE
>> IF THERE IS A COMPETITIVE
FLORIDA PRIMARY AT SOME POINT
FOR THE REPS, YES, BUT IN THE
GENERAL ELECTION, THIS IS A
LOOKING BACKWARD POSITION, IT'S
LOOKING BACKWARD POSITION,
IT'S A MINORITY POSITION.
A MINORITY POSITION. IT WON'T
HELP ANY REPUBLICAN IN
IT WON'T HELP ANY REPUBLICAN
IN THE GENERAL CONTEST.
THE GENERAL CONTEST. >>
AND IN THE PRIMARY, MAYBE
>> AND IN THE PRIMARY, MAYBE
RUBIO HAS MORE CREDIBILITY
BECAUSE HE'S CUBAN-AMERICAN BUT
BECAUSE HE'S CUBAN-AMERICAN
BUT THEY'RE ALL IN THE SAME
THEY'RE ALL IN THE
SAME POSITION.
POSITION. IT'S AN
INTERESTING RACE.
IT'S AN INTERESTING RACE. WE
COULD GET DOWN TO THE FLORIDA
WE COULD GET DOWN TO THE FLORIDA
PRIMARY BETWEEN BUSH AND RUBIO
AND THEY'RE POLLING EVEN.
AND THEY'RE POLLING EVEN. IN
THE GENERAL ELECTION, NEITHER
IN THE GENERAL ELECTION, NEITHER
ARE GUARANTEED TO DELIVER
FLORIDA PHO THE REPS.
FLORIDA PHO THE REPS. IN ALL
THEIR RACES, THE BUSH HAS
IN ALL THEIR RACES, THE BUSH HAS
NOT RUN IN PRESIDENTIAL YEAR.
>> Woodruff: SOMETHING ELSE
>> Woodruff: SOMETHING ELSE JEB
BUSH BROUGHT UP THIS WEEK AS
JEB BUSH BROUGHT UP THIS WEEK AS
AN ISSUE IN THE RACE WAS GOING
AFTER HILLARY CLINTON, BLAMING
HER AND THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
FOR, ESSENTIALLY, HELPING CREATE
FOR, ESSENTIALLY,
HELPING CREATE I.S.I.S.
I.S.I.S. I MEAN, HE
SAID THAT WITH THE
I MEAN, HE SAID THAT WITH THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION DID UNDER
HER LEADERSHIP AS SECRETARY OF
STATE WAS TO LEAVE AN OPENING,
PULLING THE TROOPS OUT, HE SAID,
PULLING THE TROOPS OUT, HE
SAID, TOO EARLY, IN 2007.
TOO EARLY, IN 2007. IS THIS
SOMETHING, DAVID CORN,
IS THIS SOMETHING, DAVID CORN,
THAT HE CAN GET SMILING.
THAT HE CAN GET SMILING. >>
I THINK HE WAS SETTING A
>> I THINK HE WAS SETTING
A RECORD FOR CHUTZPAH.
RECORD FOR CHUTZPAH. IT
WASN'T TILL AFTER HIS
IT WASN'T TILL AFTER HIS
INVASION IN IRAQ THAT YOU HAD
SOMETHING CALLED AL QUAIDA IN
IRAQ AND THAT'S THE GROUP THAT
IRAQ AND THAT'S THE GROUP
THAT MORPHED INTO I.S.I.S.
MORPHED INTO I.S.I.S. SO
I.S.I.S. IS A DIRECT RESULT
SO I.S.I.S. IS A DIRECT
RESULT OF THE WAR IN IRAQ.
OF THE WAR IN IRAQ. SO
HE'S WRONG ON THE HISTORY.
SO HE'S WRONG ON THE HISTORY.
THEN HE SAID WHAT HAPPENED WAS
OBAMA AND HILLARY CLINTON
ORCHESTRATED A QUICK WITHDRAWAL
AFTER EVERYTHING WAS SECURE.
NOTHINKNOT WAS SECURE IN 2009 AD
NOTHINKNOT WAS SECURE
IN 2009 AD 2010.
2010. GEORGE BUSH
IN 2008 CREATED AN
GEORGE BUSH IN 2008 CREATED AN
AGREEMENT WITH MALIKI THAT SAID
THE TROOPS HAD TO BE OUT BY
THE TROOPS HAD TO
BE OUT BY 2011.
2011. OBAMA DIDN'T
RENEGOTIATE THAT
OBAMA DIDN'T RENEGOTIATE THAT
AND THERE IS A QUESTION AS TO
WHEER HTHE COULD HAVE GIVEN THE
POLITICAL SITUATION IN BAGHDAD.
SO JEB BUSH IS TOTALLY REWRITING
THIS AND WHY IS HE EVEN TALKING
THIS AND WHY IS HE EVEN
TALKING ABOUT IRAQ?
ABOUT IRAQ? >> HE
WANTS TO HAVE AN
>> HE WANTS TO HAVE AN
ANTI-TERROR FOREIGN POLICY.
I GIVE HIM A LITTLE CREDIT.
BOTH PARTIES HAVE SOMETHING TO
BOTH PARTIES HAVE
SOMETHING TO ANSWER FOR.
ANSWER FOR. ULTIMATELY,
I.S.I.S. CREATED
ULTIMATELY, I.S.I.S. CREATED
I.S.I.S., IT WASN'T US.
I.S.I.S., IT WASN'T US. AROUND
THE ENVIRONMENT, SO THE
AROUND THE ENVIRONMENT, SO THE
BUSH ADMINISTRATION, F CONTRIBUY
BUSH ADMINISTRATION,
F CONTRIBUY FACTOR.
FACTOR. I DO THINK
THAT WE ABANDONED
I DO THINK THAT WE ABANDONED
IRAQ TOO QUICKLY, LEFT TOO
QUICKLY AND LEFT A VOID IN SUNNI
AREAS WHICH I.S.I.S. WAS HAPPY
MORE IMPORTANT, AND A BIGGER
INDICTMENT OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, WE DID NOTHING
ABOUT THE SYRIAN CIVIL WAR AND
THAT CREATED THE BIGGEST VOID.
THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY HILLARY
CLINTON'S FAULT BECAUSE SHE WAS
ARGUING FOR MORE AGGRESSIVE
ARGUING FOR MORE
AGGRESSIVE POLICY.
POLICY. NONETHELESS,
WE DID NOTHING.
NONETHELESS, WE DID NOTHING.
TODAY OUR ATTACKS ON I.S.I.S.
ARE PALTRY AND WE'VE CONTINUE TO
ARE PALTRY AND WE'VE
CONTINUE TO DO NOTHING.
DO NOTHING. THERE
ARE MORAL ISSUES.
THERE ARE MORAL ISSUES. MY
INSTITUTE HAD A STUDY ON
MY INSTITUTE HAD A STUDY
ON INSTITUTIONALIZED RAPE.
INSTITUTIONALIZED RAPE.
WE SIT BY AND DO NOTHING.
>> Woodruff: IT IS SUCH A
>> Woodruff: IT IS SUCH
A DISTURBING STORY.
DISTURBING STORY. DOES
HE HAVE A POINT THERE,
DOES HE HAVE A POINT
THERE, DAVID?
DAVID? >> I THINK YOU
CAN HAVE A POLICY
>> I THINK YOU CAN HAVE A
POLICY DISPUTE OR A DEBATE, A
DISPUTE OR A DEBATE, A
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHAT SHOULD BE
DONE AND HAS BEEN DONE IN THE
LAST THREE OR FOUR YEARS
REGARDING I.S.I.S. AND IRAQ.
REGARDING I.S.I.S. AND IRAQ. YOU
CAN'T BLAME HILLARY CLINTON
YOU CAN'T BLAME HILLARY CLINTON
AND BARACK OBAMA FOR GIVING US
I.S.I.S., WHICH IS WHAT JEB BUSH
DID, AND IF HE WANTS TO GET TO
BRASS TAX AND TALK ABOUT WHAT
HE'S WILLING TO DO IN TERMS OF
PUTTING IN TROOPS AND TAKING ON
TARGETING THAT HASN'T BEEN DONE,
ALREADY, I MEAN, BARACK OBAMA
HAS MOUNTED THOUSANDS OF AIR
STRIKES, AND THE REAL QUESTION
IS, AT THE END OF THE DAY, CAN
THE U.S. GO IN AND MAKE A
THE U.S. GO IN AND
MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
DIFFERENCE? MILITARY
MIGHT DOESN'T ALWAYS
MILITARY MIGHT DOESN'T ALWAYS
GIVE US WHAT WE WANT IN THIS
REGION, WE LEARNED FROM THE
MILITARY INVASION OF IRAQ.
MILITARY INVASION OF IRAQ. >>
Woodruff: HIS CRITICISM IS
>> Woodruff: HIS CRITICISM IS
RAISED AT HILLARY CLINTON WHICH
RAISES ANOTHER QUESTION.
RAISES ANOTHER QUESTION. SHE'S
NOT ONLY DEALING WITH THAT
SHE'S NOT ONLY DEALING WITH
THAT BUT IN LARGER SENSE, THE
BUT IN LARGER SENSE, THE
E-MAILS, HER SERVER TURNED OVER
TO THE F.B.I., QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHETHER A COUPLE WERE MARKED TOP
WHETHER A COUPLE WERE
MARKED TOP SECRET.
SECRET. SHE'S FACING
BERNIE SANDERS
SHE'S FACING BERNIE SANDERS
BEING AHEAD OF HER IN THE POLLS
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE, DAVID.
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE, DAVID. THERE
IS SERIOUS TALK ABOUT JOE
THERE IS SERIOUS TALK ABOUT JOE
BIDEN, VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN
LOOKING AT RUNNING AS A
DEMOCRAT, AND EVEN A RUMOR TODAY
DEMOCRAT, AND EVEN A RUMOR
TODAY ABOUT AL GORE.
ABOUT AL GORE. WHAT'S
GOING ON IN THE
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY?
DEMOCRATIC PARTY? IS
HILLARY CLINTON MORE
IS HILLARY CLINTON MORE
VULNERABLE THAN ANYBODY THOUGHT?
VULNERABLE THAN ANYBODY
THOUGHT? >> OBVIOUSLY.
>> OBVIOUSLY. PEOPLE
THOUGHT, A, SHE'S A GOOD
PEOPLE THOUGHT, A, SHE'S A GOOD
CANDIDATE, NOT FANTASTIC, SHE'S
NOT CREATIVE AND IMAGINATION IS
REALLY IMPORTANT WHEN YOU'RE
RUNNING FOR OFFICE, BUT, TO ME,
THE BIGGEST PROBLEM AND THE JOKE
IS SHE CARRIES MORE BAGGAGE THAN
IS SHE CARRIES MORE BAGGAGE
THAN UNITED AIR LINES.
UNITED AIR LINES.
OVER THE YEARS, SHE'S
ACCUMULATED ALL THIS STUFF AND
THE E-MAILS ARE A REMINDER OF
THE E-MAILS ARE A
REMINDER OF THAT.
THAT. THE BIGGEST
PROBLEM IS SHE'S
THE BIGGEST PROBLEM IS SHE'S
RUNNING IN THE WRONG YEAR.
SHE, I THINK, WILL GET THE
NOMINATION BECAUSE SHE'S THE
ONLY ALTERNATIVE BUT SHE CLEARLY
ONLY ALTERNATIVE BUT SHE
CLEARLY IS THE ESTABLISHMENT.
IS THE ESTABLISHMENT. ONLY
THREE IN TEN AMERICANS
ONLY THREE IN TEN AMERICANS
THINK THEIR VIEW IS REPRESENTED
IN WASHINGTON, ONLY 29% OF
AMERICANS THINK THE COUNTRY IS
AMERICANS THINK THE COUNTRY
IS HEADED IN THE RIGHT PLACE.
HEADED IN THE RIGHT PLACE.
THE PEOPLE WANT A STRUCTURAL
CHANGE AND THAT'S ESPECIALLY
TRUE ON THE PROGRESSIVE SIDE.
SO SHE'S RUNNING AGAINST THE
PREVAILING WINDS OF THE MOMENT.
SHE CAN RUN BUT SHE'S IN THE
FIGHT IN THE WRONG YEAR.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK
>> Woodruff: DO YOU
THINK SHE'S VULNERABLE.
SHE'S VULNERABLE. >> NOT
IN THE SENSE THAT OTHER
>> NOT IN THE SENSE THAT OTHER
DEMOCRATIC NOMINEES CAN TAKE HER
DEMOCRATIC NOMINEES
CAN TAKE HER OUT.
OUT. I THINK BERNIE
SANDERS CAN WIN
I THINK BERNIE SANDERS CAN
WIN NEW HAMPSHIRE, BUT OFTEN
NEW HAMPSHIRE, BUT OFTEN
NOMINEES LOSE SOME PRIMARIES
NOMINEES LOSE SOME
PRIMARIES GOING ON.
GOING ON. I FIND IT
HARD TO SEE HOW EVEN
I FIND IT HARD TO SEE HOW EVEN
IF HE DOES HAVE THE LONG RETURN,
IF HE DOES HAVE THE LONG
RETURN, I DON'T KNOW.
I DON'T KNOW. JOE BIDEN
COULD BE A BIT OF THE
JOE BIDEN COULD BE A
BIT OF THE PROBLEM.
PROBLEM. PEOPLE CLOSELY
TO HIM HAVE BEEN
PEOPLE CLOSELY TO HIM
HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT.
TALKING ABOUT. THE
CONSIDERATION IS REALLY
THE CONSIDERATION IS
REALLY HAPPENING.
HAPPENING. BUT THERE
WERE TWO ESTABLISHED
BUT THERE WERE TWO ESTABLISHED
FRONT-RUNNING CANDIDATES IN THIS
FRONT-RUNNING CANDIDATES IN
THIS PRESIDENTIAL RACE, ONE IS
PRESIDENTIAL RACE, ONE IS
HILLARY CLINTON, AND SHE IS
PRETTY HIGH H IN THE POLLS, MOST
STANDARDS FOR DEMOCRATS IN MOST
PLACE, AND JEB BUSH IS 5% IN
PLACE, AND JEB BUSH
IS 5% IN IOWA.
IOWA. SO HE SAID
I'D RATHER BE HER
SO HE SAID I'D RATHER BE HER
THAN HIM AT THIS POINT IN TIME
THAN HIM AT THIS POINT IN
TIME IF YOU HAVE TO BE AN
IF YOU HAVE TO BE AN
ESTABLISHMENT FRONT-RUNNING
ESTABLISHMENT
FRONT-RUNNING CANDIDATE.
CANDIDATE. BUT EMAIL
AND STUFF, MAYBE IT'S
BUT EMAIL AND STUFF, MAYBE IT'S
GOOD THEY'RE LITIGATING THIS
EARLY BUT MAYBE IT BRINGS BACK
WHAT PEOPLE IN THE POLITICAL
MEDIA WORLD COMPLAIN ABOUT THE
MEDIA WORLD COMPLAIN ABOUT
THE CLINTONS ABOUT.
CLINTONS ABOUT. I DON'T
KNOW IF THAT WILL BE A
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT WILL BE A
PRESSING ISSUE A YEAR FROM NOW.
FOR HER, I THINK IT'S GOOD THERE
IS A LOT OF STORY GOING ON ABOUT
IS A LOT OF STORY GOING
ON ABOUT OTHER RACES.
OTHER RACES. IT'S HARD
TO BE THE CENTER OF
IT'S HARD TO BE THE CENTER OF
ATTENTION FOR A YEAR AND A HALF
AND GIVE SPEECHES AND NOT DO
MUCH ELSE AND PEOPLE STILL GOOD
FOR YOU AT THE END OF THE RACE.
>> Woodruff: THERE IS AN
ARGUMENT TO HAVE ALL THIS TALK
AND THE RACE ROILING AROUND A
LITTLE BIT AND IF SHE EMGESER
VICTORIOUS, SHE ACCOMPLISHES
MORE THAN IF SHE'S JUST BEEN THE
MORE THAN IF SHE'S JUST BEEN
THE ASSUMED PERSON ALL ALONG.
ASSUMED PERSON ALL ALONG.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
WHAT DO YOU THINK? (LAUGHTER)
(LAUGHTER) >> LISTEN,
SHE JUST HASN'T, AS I
>> LISTEN, SHE JUST HASN'T, AS I
SAID, HER PARTY IS ROILED UP.
THEY THINK THERE ARE BIG
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS IN THE
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS
IN THE ECONOMY.
ECONOMY. BERNIE SANDERS
SPEAKS TO THAT.
BERNIE SANDERS SPEAKS TO
THAT. SHE DOESN'T YET.
SHE DOESN'T YET. SHE'S
TRYING, SHE'S CATCHING UP,
SHE'S TRYING, SHE'S CATCHING UP,
BUT IT DOESN'T SEEM AUTHENTIC TO
BUT IT DOESN'T SEEM
AUTHENTIC TO HER.
HER. IT'S HOW COZY
AND RICH SHE'S
IT'S HOW COZY AND RICH SHE'S
BEEN AND HER LIFESTYLE.
BEEN AND HER LIFESTYLE. IT'S
MORE OF A CHALLENGE FOR HER
IT'S MORE OF A CHALLENGE FOR HER
TO DECIDE WHERE THE ENERGY OF
TO DECIDE WHERE THE
ENERGY OF THE PARTY IS.
THE PARTY IS. >> THAT
HAPPENS IN DEMOCRATIC
>> THAT HAPPENS IN
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARIES.
PRIMARIES. BILL
CLINTON, 1988 VS. JERRY
BILL CLINTON, 1988 VS. JERRY
BROWN, JOHN KERRY BEAT HOWARD HD
BROWN, JOHN KERRY
BEAT HOWARD HD DEAN.
DEAN. BUT BARACKBAMA
O WAS IN THE
BUT BARACKBAMA O WAS IN THE
SWEET SPOT WHERE THE ENERGY AND
THE PASSION OF QUARTER WAS.
THAT'S NOT ALWAYS THE PERSON WHO
GETS THE NOMINATION AND GOES ON
TO WIN AND GETS A GOOD SHOT AT
TO WIN AND GETS A
GOOD SHOT AT IT.
IT. >> BERNIE SANDERS IS A
>> BERNIE SANDERS
IS A PROGRESSIVE.
PROGRESSIVE. THE
PARTY IS MUCH MORE
THE PARTY IS MUCH
MORE MULTIRACIAL.
MULTIRACIAL. HE HAS
TO LIMIT O'MALLEY.
HE HAS TO LIMIT O'MALLEY.
HE AVOIDED THE PROBLEM OF
HE AVOIDED THE PROBLEM
OF PEAKING TOO EARLY.
PEAKING TOO EARLY. SHE'S
STILL AN ALTERNATIVE.
SHE'S STILL AN ALTERNATIVE. JEB
BUSH HAS AT LEAST FIVE REAL
JEB BUSH HAS AT LEAST
FIVE REAL ALTERNATIVES.
ALTERNATIVES. >>
Woodruff: SPEAKING OF A
>> Woodruff: SPEAKING OF A
ROILED-UP PARTY, DONALD RUMP
HAS BEEN DISMISS BID EVERYBODY
FROM ONE END OF THE SPECTRUM TO
ANOTHER BUT HE SEEMS TO BE JUST
ANOTHER BUT HE SEEMS TO
BE JUST GETTING STRONGER.
GETTING STRONGER. HE'S GOING
TO IN A HELICOPTER TO
HE'S GOING TO IN A HELICOPTER TO
THE IOWA STATE FAIR TOMORROW.
HE'S IN THE CAT BIRD SEAT THIS
HE'S IN THE CAT BIRD
SEAT THIS WEEKEND.
WEEKEND. >> AND I
THINK WILL BE FOR
>> AND I THINK WILL BE
FOR MONTHS TO COME.
MONTHS TO COME. HE COMES
ACROSS AS A REALITY TV
HE COMES ACROSS AS A REALITY TV
TYCOON BUFFOON, BUT THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE, YOU KNOW, ATTRACTED TO
HIM ARE REAL IMPORTANT PART OF
THE REPUBLICAN PRIMARY BASE.
YOU KNOW, A LOT OF REPUBLICANS
STILL BELIEVE THAT BARACK OBAMA
WAS NOT BORN IN THE UNITED
STATES, THAT HE'S SOME SORT OF
SECRET SOCIALIST AND SECRET
MUSLIM WHO HAS A SECRET PLAN TO
DESTROY THE UNITED STATES AND
THEY JUST REALLY DON'T LIKE HIM.
SO THEY WANT SOMEBODY WHO'S
GOING TO VENT THEIR FEARS AND
FRUSTRATIONS, SOMEBODY WHO'S FOR
GOOD GOVERNMENT POLICIES, AND
THAT BLOCK IS BETWEEN 10% AND
25%, AND A DIVIDED FIELD, THAT
GIVES DONALD TRUMP, IF HE SPEAKS
TO THESE PEOPLE, WHAT HE SAID,
THIS OUTSIZED INFLUENCE.
THIS OUTSIZED INFLUENCE. I
DON'T THINK THAT BLOCK IS
I DON'T THINK THAT BLOCK
IS GOING AWAY GOING
GOING AWAY GOING AWAY.
AWAY. >> I AGREE
TRUMP ISN'T GOING
>> I AGREE TRUMP ISN'T GOING
AWAY, BUT HE'S NOT GOING TO GET
AWAY, BUT HE'S NOT
GOING TO GET VOTES.
VOTES. >> Woodruff:
YOU THINK HE'S
>> Woodruff: YOU THINK HE'S
NOT GOING TO GET VOTES?
NOT GOING TO GET VOTES? >>
I THINK MUCH LESS THAN THE
>> I THINK MUCH LESS
THAN THE POLLS.
POLLS. I THINK IN
THE POLL HE'LL HANG
I THINK IN THE POLL HE'LL
HANG AROUND 20 FOREVER.
AROUND 20 FOREVER. BUT HIS
VOTE IS LOW INFORMATION
BUT HIS VOTE IS LOW INFORMATION
VOTERS, PEOPLE WHO DON'T PAY
ATTENTION TO POLITICS, AND THIS
IS A CONSERVATIVE PARTY AND HE
IS A CONSERVATIVE PARTY AND
HE IS NOT A CONSERVATIVE.
IS NOT A CONSERVATIVE. HE'S
AGAINST ENTITLEMENT REFORM,
HE'S AGAINST ENTITLEMENT REFORM,
FOR A SINGLE HEALTHCARE SYSTEM,
HE'S FOR WINNERS AND LOSERS.
IT'S NOT A CLASSIC IDEOLOGY.
I THINK HE'LL GET IT FOR THE
REASON I SAID EARLIER FOR THE
SAME REASON JEB BUSH AND HILLARY
CLINTON ARE STRUGGLING, HE'S
CLINTON ARE STRUGGLING,
HE'S RISING.
RISING. HE'S AT THE
MOMENT WHERE THE
HE'S AT THE MOMENT WHERE THE
COUNTRY WANTS A WEIRD INSURGENCY
WITH A LOT OF EGO AND THAT'S
WITH A LOT OF EGO
AND THAT'S HIM.
HIM. AND, SO, HE'S
AT THE MOMENT OF
AND, SO, HE'S AT THE MOMENT OF
THE TIMES, BUT I DON'T THINK
THOSE PEOPLE WILL SHOW UP AND
HE'LL HANG AROUND THE 20%
FOREVER AND SOMEBODY WILL
EVENTUALLY BEAT HIM.
EVENTUALLY BEAT HIM. >>
Woodruff: WE KEEP TALKING
>> Woodruff: WE KEEP TALKING
ABOUT HIM EVERY FRIDAY.
ABOUT HIM EVERY FRIDAY. WE'LL
SEE HOW LONG IT LASTS.
WE'LL SEE HOW LONG IT LASTS.
>> HE CONTINUES TO BE AN
INCREDIBLY GROSS HUMAN BEING.
THAT MAY GET SOME COMMENTS.
>> Woodruff: DAVID BROOKS,
DAVID CORN, GOOD TO HAVE YOU
DAVID CORN, GOOD TO
HAVE YOU WITH US.
WITH US. >> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY. .
>> Woodruff:TAY SWITH US.
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: THE
NATIONAL FLUTE ASSOCIATION
THE NATIONAL FLUTE ASSOCIATION
DESCENDS ON WASHINGTON AND WHAT
"SESAME STREET'S" FORMER C.E.O.
HAS TO SAY ABOUT ITS LEAVING
HAS TO SAY ABOUT
ITS LEAVING PBS.
PBS. BUT FIRST, A
NEW MOVIE OPENING
BUT FIRST, A NEW MOVIE OPENING
TODAY REVISITS A KEY PERIOD IN
THE EVOLUTION OF HIP HOP MUSIC,
AS WELL AS PRESENT-DAY ISSUES OF
AS WELL AS PRESENT-DAY
ISSUES OF RACE AND JUSTICE.
RACE AND JUSTICE. JEFFREY
BROWN PREVIEWS "STRAIGHT
JEFFREY BROWN PREVIEWS
"STRAIGHT OUTTA COMPTON."
OUTTA COMPTON." >> YOU
ARE NOW ABOUT TO WITNESS
>> YOU ARE NOW ABOUT TO WITNESS
THE STRENGTH OF STREET VIOLENCE.
>> Brown: IT WAS MUSIC WITH
ATTITUDE: AGGRESSIVE, ANG,RY
SOMETIMES FUNNY, ALWAYS PROFANE.
"STRAIGHT OUTTA COMPTON" BURST
ON THE HIP HOP SCENE IN 1988
FROM THE RAP GROUP N.W.A.
FROM THE RAP GROUP N.W.A. IT
DESCRIBED A PLACE REELING
IT DESCRIBED A PLACE REELING
FROM GANG VIOLENCE, CRACK
COCAINE AND POVERTY.
COCAINE AND POVERTY. MEN
AND WOMEN AND THE LOS
MEN AND WOMEN AND THE LOS A
WAR ZONE BETWEEN YOUNG BLACK
A WAR ZONE BETWEEN YOUNG BLACK
MEN AND WOMEN AND THE LOS
MEN AND WOMEN AND THE
LOS ANGELES POLICE.
ANGELES POLICE. THE NEW
MOVIE, WHICH BORROWS THE
THE NEW MOVIE, WHICH BORROWS THE
ALBUM'S NAME, DETAILS THE RISE
ALBUM'S NAME, DETAILS
THE RISE OF N.W.A.
OF N.W.A. NO WHITES ALLOWED?
NO WHITES ALLOWED? >>
WHAT'S N.W.A STAND FOR?
>> WHAT'S N.W.A STAND FOR?
>> NO, NIGGAZ WIT ATTITUDES.
>> Brown: THE GROUP INCLUDED
D.J. YELLA, MC-REN AND EAZY-E, A
DRUG DEALER TURNED PRODUCER AND
RAPPER WHO WOULD DIE FROM AIDS
RAPPER WHO WOULD DIE
FROM AIDS IN 1995.
IN 1995. AS WELL AS
DR. DRE AND ICE CUBE,
AS WELL AS DR. DRE AND ICE CUBE,
WHO'VE GONE ON TO ENORMOUS FAME
AND WHO SERVED AS PRODUCERS FOR
AND WHO SERVED AS
PRODUCERS FOR THE FILM.
THE FILM. >> IT'S BEEN
A LONG, LONG ROAD
>> IT'S BEEN A LONG, LONG ROAD
BUT NOW IS THE TIME AND I THINK,
YOU KNOW, AMERICA REALLY WANTS
THIS STORY BECAUSE IT'S REALLY A
THIS STORY BECAUSE IT'S REALLY
A SLICE OF AMERICAN HISTORY.
SLICE OF AMERICAN HISTORY. >>
Brown: THE MOVIE, SPANNING A
>> Brown: THE MOVIE, SPANNING A
DECADE, WAS DIRECTED BY COMPTON
DECADE, WAS DIRECTED BY
COMPTON NATIVE F. GARY GRAY.
NATIVE F. GARY GRAY.
>> IT SHOWS HOW N.W.A
ESTABLISHED ITSELF AT A TIME
WHEN NEW YORK RAP WAS DOMINANT.
AND HOW THE GROUP RESPONDED TO
AND HOW THE GROUP RESPONDED
TO ITS ENVIRONMENT.
ITS ENVIRONMENT. AS WHEN
ITS MEMBERS ARE DETAINED
AS WHEN ITS MEMBERS ARE DETAINED
BY POLICE OUTSIDE A MUSIC STUDIO
AS THEY'RE RECORDING THEIR FIRST
AS THEY'RE RECORDING
THEIR FIRST ALBUM.
ALBUM. >> WE'RE
TRYING TO CHECK THESE
>> WE'RE TRYING TO CHECK THESE
BANGERS MAKE SURE THEY'RE CLEAN.
BANGERS MAKE SURE THEY'RE
CLEAN. I'M A MANAGER.
I'M A MANAGER. MR. MANAGER.
MR. MANAGER. >> YOU
HAVE TO BE KIDDING ME.
>> YOU HAVE TO BE KIDDING ME.
THESE RAPPERS LOOK LIKE GANG
THESE RAPPERS LOOK
LIKE GANG MEMBERS.
MEMBERS. CITIZEN, A
WAR ON GANGS SEEMED
CITIZEN, A WAR ON GANGS
SEEMED PRETTY GOOD.
PRETTY GOOD. BUT IF
EVERY COP THINKS EVERY
BUT IF EVERY COP THINKS EVERY
KID HE SEES IS A GANG MEMBER OR
A GANGBANGER, THEN THAT'S WHERE
ALL THE PROBLEMS OF ABUSE,
EXCESSIVE FORCE, HARASSMENT, ALL
EXCESSIVE FORCE, HARASSMENT,
ALL THESE THINGS STARTIN
THESE THINGS STARTIN >>
Brown: MANY OF THE SONGS IN
>> Brown: MANY OF THE SONGS IN
THAT ALBUM DEALT DIRECTLY WITH
RACIAL PROFILING AND POLICE
RACIAL PROFILING AND
POLICE BRUTALITY.
BRUTALITY. >> F---
THE POLICE COMING
>> F--- THE POLICE COMING
STRAIGHT FROM THE UNDERGROUND.
A YOUNG NIGGA GOT IT BAD CAUSE
I'M BROWN AND NOT THE OTHER
COLOR SO POLICE THINK.
COLOR SO POLICE THINK. THEY
HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO KILL
THEY HAVE THE AUTHORITY
TO KILL A MINORITY.
A MINORITY. >> Brown:
THAT PARTICULAR SONG
>> Brown: THAT PARTICULAR SONG
PROVOKED GREAT ANGER AND CAUGHT
THE ATTENTION OF THE F.B.I.
THE ATTENTION OF THE F.B.I. TODD
BOYD IS A PROFESSOR OF RACE
TODD BOYD IS A PROFESSOR OF
RACE AND POPULAR CULTURE AT THE
AND POPULAR CULTURE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN
UNIVERSITY OF
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
CALIFORNIA. >> THEY
RAPPED IN A WAY THAT WAS
>> THEY RAPPED IN A WAY THAT
WAS VERY CONFRONTATIONAL.
VERY CONFRONTATIONAL. I THINK
IT HAD BEEN COMMON FOR
I THINK IT HAD BEEN COMMON FOR
AFRICAN AMERICANS, FOR INSTANCE,
OVER A PERIOD OF TIME TO SORT OF
OVER A PERIOD OF TIME TO SORT
OF RESIST THE STEREOTYPES THAT
RESIST THE STEREOTYPES THAT
MAINSTREAM SOCIETY MAY HAVE
MAINSTREAM SOCIETY MAY
HAVE HOISTED UPON THEM.
HOISTED UPON THEM. WHAT
N.W.A DID WAS THEY SAID,
WHAT N.W.A DID WAS THEY
SAID, YOU KNOW WHAT?
YOU KNOW WHAT? IF YOU
THINK WE'RE THUGS, IF YOU
IF YOU THINK WE'RE THUGS, IF YOU
THINK WE'RE OUTLAWS, YOU'RE
THINK WE'RE OUTLAWS,
YOU'RE RIGHT.
RIGHT. YOU SHOULD
BE AFRAID OF US.
YOU SHOULD BE AFRAID OF US.
WE'RE GOING TO EMBRACE THE
STEREOTYPE, WE'RE NOT GOING TO
STEREOTYPE, WE'RE NOT
GOING TO RUN FROM IT.
RUN FROM IT. WE'RE
YOUR WORST NIGHTMARE.
WE'RE YOUR WORST NIGHTMARE.
>> Brown: THE GROUP CALLED IT
>> Brown: THE GROUP
CALLED IT REALITY RAP.
REALITY RAP. BUT IT
BECAME KNOWN AS GANGSTA
BUT IT BECAME KNOWN
AS GANGSTA RAP.
RAP. THE RESPONSE--
CAPTURED IN A
THE RESPONSE-- CAPTURED IN A
1993 NEWSHOUR REPORT-- WAS
1993 NEWSHOUR REPORT--
WAS SHARPLY DIVIDED.
SHARPLY DIVIDED. SOME
LOVED THE RAW ENERGY AND
SOME LOVED THE RAW
ENERGY AND MESSAGE.
MESSAGE. >> WE KNOW
WHAT'S RIGHT AND WE
>> WE KNOW WHAT'S RIGHT AND WE
KNOW WHAT'S WRONG AND MUSIC IS
KNOW WHAT'S WRONG AND
MUSIC IS NOT THE KILLER.
NOT THE KILLER. MUSIC
IS NOT THE ILL!
MUSIC IS NOT THE ILL! THE
ILL IS THE STREET WERE ARE
THE ILL IS THE STREET WERE ARE
FORCED TO LIVE LIKE RATS ON!
>> Brown: OTHERS HEARD A
GLORIFICATION OF GUNS, DRUGS,
GLORIFICATION OF GUNS,
DRUGS, AND EXTREME SEXISM.
AND EXTREME SEXISM. >> THIS
IS NOT A PLACE, AS ONE
>> THIS IS NOT A PLACE, AS ONE
YOUNG WOMAN STOOD UP AND SAID,
WHERE I HEAR WOMEN CALLED
BITCHES AND WHORES AROUND EVERY
BITCHES AND WHORES
AROUND EVERY CORNER.
CORNER. IT'S NOT.
IT'S NOT. IT'S NOT
LIKE THAT IN OAKLAND,
IT'S NOT LIKE THAT IN OAKLAND,
IT'S NOT LIKE THAT IN L.A.
IT'S NOT LIKE THAT IN
L.A. THERE IS SOME OF IT.
THERE IS SOME OF IT. T
THBUEIR WORLD MUST NOT
T THBUEIR WORLD MUST NOT
UNDERSTAND THAT THAT IS WHO WE
UNDERSTAND THAT
THAT IS WHO WE ARE.
ARE. >> Brown: IN
THIS SCENE FROM THE
>> Brown: IN THIS SCENE FROM THE
FILM, THE GROUP RESPONDS TO SOME
FILM, THE GROUP RESPONDS
TO SOME OF THAT CRITICISM.
OF THAT CRITICISM. >> WE
GAVE THE PEOPLE A VOICE.
>> WE GAVE THE PEOPLE A VOICE.
WE GAVE THE PEOPLE TRUTH.
WE GAVE THE PEOPLE TRUTH. >>
Brown: YESTERDAY, ICE CUBE
>> Brown: YESTERDAY,
ICE CUBE TOLD ME THIS:
TOLD ME THIS: >> NAH,
I DON'T HAVE ANY
>> NAH, I DON'T
HAVE ANY REGRETS.
REGRETS. YOU KNOW,
THAT WAS A TIME
YOU KNOW, THAT WAS
A TIME CAPSULE.
CAPSULE. MUSIC IS A
TIME CAPSULE SO YOU
MUSIC IS A TIME CAPSULE SO YOU
KNOW, THAT'S WHAT WAS HAPPENING
KNOW, THAT'S WHAT WAS
HAPPENING BACK THEN.
BACK THEN. THAT'S
WHAT WE WAS TALKING
THAT'S WHAT WE WAS
TALKING ABOUT.
ABOUT. SO MAKING
MUSIC ABOUT IT TO US
SO MAKING MUSIC ABOUT IT TO
US WAS A POSITIVE THING.
WAS A POSITIVE THING. WAITS
MORE POSITIVE THAN GOING
WAITS MORE POSITIVE THAN GOING
OUT THERE AND DOING SOME OF
OUT THERE AND DOING SOME
OF THESE THINGS LITERALLY.
THESE THINGS LITERALLY. SO
MAKING A RECORD WAS EXTREMELY
SO MAKING A RECORD WAS EXTREMELY
FUN, POSITIVE, CREATIVE,
SOMETHING TO GET US OFF THE
STREETS AND WE MADE HISTORY WITH
STREETS AND WE MADE
HISTORY WITH IT.
IT. >> Brown: THE ARRIVAL OF THE
>> Brown: THE ARRIVAL OF THE
FILM OFFERS A CHANCE TO TAKE
FILM OFFERS A CHANCE TO
TAKE STOCK OF THAT HISTORY.
STOCK OF THAT HISTORY. TO
CONSIDER HOW N.W.A.-- AND RAP
TO CONSIDER HOW N.W.A.-- AND RAP
-- EVOLVED FROM AN UNDERGROUND
MOVEMENT TO TODAY'S POPULAR
MOVEMENT TO TODAY'S
POPULAR CULTURE.
CULTURE. >> THINK ABOUT
THE PROMINENCE OF
>> THINK ABOUT THE PROMINENCE OF
"THE GODFATHER," VITTO CORLEONE,
"THE GODFATHER," VITTO
CORLEONE, MICHAEL CORLEONE.
MICHAEL CORLEONE. WELL,
BY 2000 WE HAVE TONY
WELL, BY 2000 WE HAVE TONY
SOPRANO AND THE SOPRANOS.
SOPRANO AND THE SOPRANOS. WE
HAD MOVED TO THE SUBURBS.
WE HAD MOVED TO THE SUBURBS.
WE HAVE A LONG TRADITION OF
EMBRACING AND CELEBRATING
GANGSTERS IN POPULAR CULTURE.
HIP HOP IS ANOTHER VERSION OF
HIP HOP IS ANOTHER VERSION
OF THAT, SO WHAT WAS ONCE
THAT, SO WHAT WAS ONCE
THREATENING TO MANY PEOPLE BY
THREATENING TO MANY PEOPLE
BY NOW IS VERY MAINSTREAM.
NOW IS VERY MAINSTREAM. >>
Brown: THE FILM ALSO COMES
>> Brown: THE FILM ALSO COMES
WITH POWERFUL NEW RESONANCE.
IT'S SET AMID THE BEATING OF
RODNEY KING BY FOUR POLICE
RODNEY KING BY FOUR
POLICE OFFICERS IN 1991.
OFFICERS IN 1991. AND THE
RIOTS THAT FOLLOWED NOT
AND THE RIOTS THAT FOLLOWED NOT
GUILTY VERDICTS FOR ALL BUT ONE
OFFICER, WHO WAS CONVICTED ON A
OFFICER, WHO WAS CONVICTED
ON A LESSER CHARGE.
LESSER CHARGE. THE FILM
ARRIVES A YEAR AFTER
THE FILM ARRIVES A YEAR AFTER
THE SOTINHOG DEATH OF MICHAEL
BROWN IN FERGUSON, MISSOURI,
SPAWNED THE BLACK LIVES
MATTER MOVEMENT.
MOVEMENT. FURTHER
STOKED BY MORE RECENT
FURTHER STOKED BY MORE RECENT
VIDEOS SHOWING BLACKS BEING
KILLED AT THE HANDS OF POLICE.
>> THAT'S ACTUALLY SAD-- TO BE
HONEST-- THE FACT THAT THE STUFF
THAT WE WERE GOING THROUGH IN
THE LATE '80S, THE EARLY 90S,
YOU KNOW ITS STILL FRESH IN THE
YOU KNOW ITS STILL FRESH
IN THE NEWS TODAY.
NEWS TODAY. SO WHAT WE
WERE SPEAKING ON WAS
SO WHAT WE WERE SPEAKING ON WAS
THE REALITY OF HOW WE WERE
LIVING AND WHAT WE WERE GOING
LIVING AND WHAT WE
WERE GOING THROUGH.
THROUGH. AND IT'S
JUST A SHAME THAT
AND IT'S JUST A SHAME THAT
PEOPLE ARE STILL GOING THROUGH
PEOPLE ARE STILL GOING
THROUGH THE SAME THINGS.
THE SAME THINGS.
NOTHING HAS CHANGED.
NOTHING HAS CHANGED. >>
Brown: NOW, THOUGH, ICE CUBE
>> Brown: NOW, THOUGH, ICE CUBE
HIMSELF IS AETER VAN ACTING
HIMSELF IS AETER
VAN ACTING STAR.
STAR. EVEN IN
FAMILY-ORIENTED FILMS.
EVEN IN FAMILY-ORIENTED FILMS.
THE MUSIC LONG AGO BECAME
THE MUSIC LONG AGO
BECAME MAINSTREAM.
MAINSTREAM. AND THE STORY
OF N.W.A. IS BEING
AND THE STORY OF N.W.A. IS BEING
TOLD IN THEATERS ACROSS THE
TOLD IN THEATERS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR,
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Sreenivasan: BLOOMBERG'S
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN IS COVERING
SECRETARY KERRY'S VISIT AND
SECRETARY KERRY'S VISIT
AND JOINS ME NOW.
JOINS ME NOW. INDIRA,
YOU WERE, THERE WHAT'S
INDIRA, YOU WERE, THERE WHAT'S
THE MOOD LIKE ON THE STREET
THE MOOD LIKE ON THE
STREET BEHIND YOU?
BEHIND YOU? >> WELL,
THIS MORNING, I HAVE TO
>> WELL, THIS MORNING, I HAVE
TO SAY IT WAS REALLY ELECTRIC.
SAY IT WAS REALLY ELECTRIC.
THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO WERE
CROWDED, HUNDREDS OF CUBANS
CROWDED UP AGAINST POLICE AREAS
CROWDED UP AGAINST POLICE
AREAS BY THE U.S. EMBASSY.
BY THE U.S. EMBASSY. THIS
IS A HUGELY SYMBOLIC
THIS IS A HUGELY SYMBOLIC
HISTORICAL DAY BECAUSE THIS IS
HISTORICAL DAY BECAUSE THIS
IS THE BUILDING THE CUBAN
THE BUILDING THE CUBAN
GOVERNMENT AND ALL ITS
PROPAGANDA HAVE REFERRED TO FOR
DECADES AS THE NEST OF SPICE.
TODAY, WE SEE SENIOR CUBAN
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS COMING
TOGETHER WITH JOHN KERRY AND HIS
TOGETHER WITH JOHN KERRY
AND HIS DELEGATION.
DELEGATION. WE SAW THE
THREE MARINES WHO
WE SAW THE THREE MARINES WHO
WERE THE SAME AMERICANS WHO TOOK
DOWN THE FLAG IN 1961 HELPING TO
PUT IT BACK UP AGAIN AND THEY
WERE CHEERING FROM THE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS THAT OVERLOOK THE
BUILDINGS THAT OVERLOOK
THE AMERICAN EMBASSY.
AMERICAN EMBASSY. SO VERY
HARD TO FIND ANYONE IN
SO VERY HARD TO FIND ANYONE IN
THE CITY WHO WAS NOT IN FAVOR OF
THE CITY WHO WAS NOT IN
FAVOR OF THE NORMALIZATION.
THE NORMALIZATION. SO THERE
WAS A VERY HAPPY SPIRIT
SO THERE WAS A VERY HAPPY SPIRIT
AND DEFINITELY JOHN KERRY WAS
TRYING TO STRESS THE POSITIVE.
FORGET THE COLD WAR HISTORY, WE
HAVE TO MOVE PAST THE PROBLEMS
WE'VE HAD IN THE PAST.
WE'VE HAD IN THE PAST. >>
I KNOW YOU HAVE TECHNICAL
>> I KNOW YOU HAVE
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES.
DIFFICULTIES. THAT'S
WHY YOU'RE HOLDING THE
THAT'S WHY YOU'RE
HOLDING THE PHONE UP.
PHONE UP. JUXTAPOSE
THAT EVENT WITH WHAT
JUXTAPOSE THAT EVENT WITH WHAT
HAPPENED RIGHT AFTERWARDS.
TOUGH WORDS COMING OUT OF THE
FOREIGN MINISTER FOR CUBA WITH A
DIFFERENT CONFERENCE WHERE THE
CAMERAS WEREN'T FOCUSED ON THE
CAMERAS WEREN'T FOCUSED
ON THE HANDSHAKES.
HANDSHAKES. >> YOU'RE RIGHT.
>> YOU'RE RIGHT. WHEN
JOHN KERRY WAS TRYING TO
WHEN JOHN KERRY WAS TRYING TO
ACCENTUATE THE POSITIVE -- THE
ACCENTUATE THE POSITIVE --
THE FALL OF THE BERLIN WALL,
FALL OF THE BERLIN WALL,
COLLAPSE OF SOVIET UNION, NORMAL
ADVERTISE WITH VIETNAM WITH WHOM
WE FOUGHT A WAR -- LET'S FORGET
IT AND PUT IT BEHIND US.
IT AND PUT IT BEHIND US. THE
FOREIGN MINISTER SAYS WE
THE FOREIGN MINISTER SAYS WE
HAVE ISSUES WITH THE WAY YOU
DEAL WITH HUMAN RIGHTS.
DEAL WITH HUMAN RIGHTS. THEY
BROUGHT UP FERGUSON, POLICE
THEY BROUGHT UP FERGUSON, POLICE
BRUTALITY, UNEQUAL PAY BETWEEN
MEN AND WOMEN, RACE RELATIONS.
A LOT OF THESE ARE COMMON
TALKING POINTS THE CUBAN
GOVERNMENT USES AGAINST THE
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT AND, LATER,
WHEN WE ASKED SECRETARY DEERY
ABOUT IT HE SAID WE'RE PRESSING
THEM ON HUMAN RIGHTS, PERSONAL
FREEDOM AND THEY'RE ON THE
DEFENSIVE AND THIS IS WHAT WE
WILL WORK ON AS PART OF THE
WILL WORK ON AS PART
OF THE DIALOGUE.
DIALOGUE. KERRY MADE
IT CLEAR THAT THESE
KERRY MADE IT CLEAR THAT THESE
TALKS WILL BE RESTARTING
SEPTEMBER 10 AND 11 HERE IN
SEPTEMBER 10 AND
11 HERE IN HAVANA.
HAVANA. THEN THERE
WILL BE A DELEGATION
THEN THERE WILL BE A DELEGATION
COMING BACK TO THE UNITED STATES
AND IF THEY DON'T MAKE PROGRESS
ON A NUMBER OF ISSUES -- SOME
ARE EASIER LIKE COOPERATION ON
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES, AND SOME
ARE HARDER, THE ISSUES FOR
PAYING FOR CLAIMS FOR SEIZED
PROPERTY AND THE ISSUE OF HUMAN
PROPERTY AND THE ISSUE
OF HUMAN RIGHTS.
RIGHTS. SO HE MADE
IT CLEAR SOME OF
SO HE MADE IT CLEAR SOME OF
THESE ARE TOUGH ISSUES AND HE
THINKS IT WILL TAKE TIME, BUT IF
THEY DON'T MAKE SOME PROGRESS, I
THINK, YOU KNOW, I THINK THEY
DON'T WANT TO SEE BACKSLIDING.
THEY WILL CONTINUE TO PRESS THE
CUBANS ON ALL THE ISSUES WHICH
KERRY REFERRED TO AS ISSUES OF
KERRY REFERRED TO AS
ISSUES OF CONSCIENCE.
CONSCIENCE. >>
Sreenivasan: REHEARD
>> Sreenivasan: REHEARD
CRITICISM FROM MARCO RUBIO
SAYING THE DISSIDENTS NOT BEING
AT THE FIRST EVENT WAS PRETTY
IMPORTANT, THAT SECRETARY KERRY
MET WITH THEM AFTERWARDS.
MET WITH THEM AFTERWARDS. WHAT
WAS THE MEETING LIK LIKE?
WHAT WAS THE MEETING LIK LIKE?
>> YEAH, THAT WAS AN EMOTIONAL
>> YEAH, THAT WAS AN
EMOTIONAL MEETING.
MEETING. JOHN KERRY
SAID FROM THE START
JOHN KERRY SAID FROM THE START
THAT HE WANTED TO MEET WITH ALL
OF THE MEMBERS OF CUBAN CIVIL
SOCIETY, NOT JUST HUMAN RIGHTS
ACTIVISTS, ALSO MEMBERS OF THE
INDEPENDENT MEDIA, PRIVATE
ENTREPRENEURS, BUT ALL OF THEM
MARGINALIZED BY THE CUBAN STATE.
HE MADE IT CLEAR HE WAS GOING TO
MEET WITH THEM BUT WHAT WE WERE
MEET WITH THEM BUT WHAT WE
WERE TOLD BY STATE DEPARTMENT
TOLD BY STATE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS, IS JUST LIKE IN
CHINA, BURMA, VIETNAM OR OTHER
COUNTRIES WHO HAVE REPRESSIVE
GOVERNMENTS, IT WOULD BE
IMPOSSIBLE TO HAVE GOVERNING
OFFICIALS AND DISSIDENTS IN THE
SAME ROOM AND THAT'S WHY THEY
SAME ROOM AND THAT'S WHY
THEY HAD HOFFTWO EVENTS.
HAD HOFFTWO EVENTS. THAT
WON'T MAKE MARCO RUBIO OR
THAT WON'T MAKE MARCO RUBIO OR
SENATOR BOB MENENDEZ HAPPY AND
SENATOR BOB MENENDEZ HAPPY
AND THE CRITICS OF THE
THE CRITICS OF THE
ADMINISTRATION SAYING WHY DID
YOU HAVE THIS MEETING WITH THE
GOVERNMENT AND PAY HOMAGE TO THE
CASTRO GOVERNMENT AND SEE THE
DISSIDENTS SEPARATELY BURKS THE
EXPLANATION THEY GAVE IS, IN ANY
COUNTRY LIKE THIS, IN ORDER TO
IMPROVE RELATIONS, WE HAVE TO
HAVE COMMUNICATION AND WE STILL
HAVE COMMUNICATION AND WE
STILL THERE TO MEET WITH THE
THERE TO MEET WITH THE
DISSIDENTS IN A SEPARATE VENUE.
DISSIDENTS IN A SEPARATE
VENUE. >> Sreenivasan: INDIRA
>> Sreenivasan: INDIRA
LAKSHMANAN, "BLOOMBERG NEWS,"
JOINING US FROM HAVE NAVMENT
JOINING US FROM HAVE
NAVMENT THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL BE BACK
WITH "SESAME STREET"'S RECENT
WITH "SESAME STREET"'S
RECENT MOVE.
MOVE. WE'LL BE BACK WITH A
WE'LL BE BACK WITH A
CONVERSATION ABOUT "SESAME
CONVERSATION ABOUT
"SESAME STREET'S" RECEN
STREET'S" RECEN FINALLY,
BIG CHANGES AT SESAME
FINALLY, BIG CHANGES
AT SESAME STREET.
STREET. YESTERDAY,
THE LONG-RUNNING PBS
YESTERDAY, THE LONG-RUNNING PBS
CHILDREN'S TELEVISION SERIES
ANNOUNCED A NEW FIVE-YEAR
PARTNERSHIP WITH HBO.
PARTNERSHIP WITH HBO. HBO
WILL AIR NEW FALL EPISODES
HBO WILL AIR NEW FALL
EPISODES STARTING THIS FALL.
STARTING THIS FALL. NEW
EPISODES OF THE SHOW-- A PBS
NEW EPISODES OF THE SHOW-- A PBS
STAPLE SINCE IT PREMIERED IN
1969--- WILL APPEAR FIRST ON THE
PREMIUM PAY CABLE CHANNEL THEN
PREMIUM PAY CABLE CHANNEL
THEN AIR FOR FREE ON THEIR
AIR FOR FREE ON THEIR
TRADITIONAL PUBLIC TELEVISION
HOME, NINE MONTHS LATER.
HOME, NINE MONTHS LATER. TO
HELP US EXPLORE WHAT LED TO
TO HELP US EXPLORE WHAT LED TO
THIS CHANGE, AND WHAT IT MEANS,
THIS CHANGE, AND WHAT IT
MEANS, WE TURN TO GARY KNELL.
WE TURN TO GARY KNELL. HE WAS
C.E.O OF SESAME WORKSHOP,
HE WAS C.E.O OF SESAME WORKSHOP,
THE NON-PROFIT GROUP BEHIND THE
SHOW, FROM 2000 TO 2011, THEN
HEAD OF N.P.R., BEFORE MOVING TO
HIS CURRENT JOB AS PRESIDENT OF
THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY.
GARY KNELL, GREAT TO HAVE YOU
GARY KNELL, GREAT TO
HAVE YOU WITH US.
WITH US. >> THANKS
FOR HAVING ME BACK.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME BACK.
>> Woodruff: SO, TELL US, WHAT
>> Woodruff: SO, TELL US,
WHAT WAS BEHIND THIS.
WAS BEHIND THIS. NOW THAT
WE HAVE A DAY TO DIGEST
NOW THAT WE HAVE A DAY TO DIGEST
THE NEWS, WHAT WERE THE FORCES
THE NEWS, WHAT WERE
THE FORCES AT WORK?
AT WORK? >> YOU HAVE
TO LOOK AT THIS
>> YOU HAVE TO LOOK
AT THIS THREE WAYS.
THREE WAYS. FOR HBO THIS
IS ABOUT STREAMING.
FOR HBO THIS IS ABOUT STREAMING.
THEY'RE COMPETING WITH NETFLIX,
AND, FOR THEM, AND AMAZON PRIME,
AND THIS IS A WAY OF GETTING A
NUMBER-ONE, QUALITY BRAND ON TO
NUMBER-ONE, QUALITY BRAND ON
TO THEIR STREAMING PLATFORMS.
THEIR STREAMING PLATFORMS. FOR
"SESAME STREET," THIS FILLS
FOR "SESAME STREET," THIS FILLS
AN ECONOMIC GAP AND THEIR
ECONOMIC MODEL FOR MANY YEARS
HAS BEEN FILLED BY HOME VIDEO
AND TOYS AND BOOKS AND OTHER
THINGS THAT THEY WERE ABLE TO
MONETIZE OFF THE BRAND TO PAY
FOR THE PRODUCTION IN A LOT OF
WAYS FOR PBS, AND THIS IS A WAY
OF PLUGGING THAT GAP AND GIVING
OF PLUGGING THAT GAP AND
GIVING THEM RUNNING ROOM.
THEM RUNNING ROOM. I THINK
FOR PBS, IT'S A LITTLE
I THINK FOR PBS, IT'S A LITTLE
BIT OF AN ADMISSION THAT MAYBE
THEY'RE A LITTLE BIGGER THAN
THEY'RE A LITTLE BIGGER
THAN "SESAME STREET."
"SESAME STREET." THEY
HAVE 19 PRE-SCHOOL AND
THEY HAVE 19 PRE-SCHOOL AND
KIDS' SHOWS ON PBS, AND PBS KIDS
HAS BECOME A ROBUST NETWORK HAS
BIGGER THAN "SESAME STREET" NOW.
IT INCLUDES "SESAME STREET,"
THAT'S AN IMPORTANT COMPONENT
BURKS IT'S BIGGER THAN -- BUT
BURKS IT'S BIGGER THAN --
BUT IT'S BIGGER THAN THAT.
IT'S BIGGER THAN THAT.
>> Woodruff: WHY HBO?
>> Woodruff: WHY HBO? WE
THINK OF THIS AS A CHANNEL
WE THINK OF THIS AS A CHANNEL
THAT APPEALS TO ADULTS, IT'S A
THAT APPEALS TO ADULTS, IT'S
A PREMIUM PAY CABLE THING,
PREMIUM PAY CABLE THING,
SOMETHING PEOPLE WILL HAVE TO
SOMETHING PEOPLE WILL
HAVE TO PAY FOR.
PAY FOR. COULDN'T
IT WORK AT PBS IN.
COULDN'T IT WORK AT PBS IN. >>
WELL, IT COULD, BUT FOR HBO
>> WELL, IT COULD, BUT FOR HBO
THIS IS A BRILLIANT MOVE TO GO
AFTER THE MILLENNIAL AUDIENCES
AND YOUNG PARENTS WHO GREW UP
AND YOUNG PARENTS WHO GREW
UP WITH "SESAME STREET."
WITH "SESAME STREET." AGAIN,
THEY'RE IN A FIGHT TO THE
AGAIN, THEY'RE IN A FIGHT TO THE
DEATH NOW, NOT SO MUCH ABOUT
THEIR CABLE CHANNEL, SO TO
SPEAK, BUT IT'S MUCH MORE ABOUT
SPEAK, BUT IT'S MUCH
MORE ABOUT STREAMING.
STREAMING. IT'S THIS A
LA CARTE WORLD WHERE
IT'S THIS A LA CARTE WORLD WHERE
WE'RE NOW COMPETING AGAINST
EVERY PIECE OF CONTENT I'VE EVER
INVENTED FROM A CAT VIDEO TO
GONE WITH THE WIND EVERY NIGHT,
AND UNLESS YOU HAVE GREAT A
AND UNLESS YOU HAVE GREAT A LA
CARTE PROGRAMS, YOU'RE GOING
LA CARTE PROGRAMS, YOU'RE
GOING TO BE IN A COMPETITIVE
TO BE IN A COMPETITIVE
DISADVANTAGE TO THE NETFLIXS AN
DISADVANTAGE TO THE NETFLIXS
AN AMAZON PRIMES OF THE WORLD.
AMAZON PRIMES OF THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT
IMPLICATIONS FOR CHILDREN'S
IMPLICATIONS FOR
CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING?
PROGRAMMING? THE PREMISE
OF "SESAME STREET"
THE PREMISE OF "SESAME STREET"
WORKSHOP WAS TO BRING QUALITY,
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMING TO ALL
KIDS, KIDS WHO WERE UNDERSERVED,
WHOSE PARENTS MIGHT NOT HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO EXPOSE THEM TO
BEEN ABLE TO EXPOSE
THEM TO OTHER THINGS.
OTHER THINGS. WHAT
ABOUT THAT ORIGINAL
WHAT ABOUT THAT
ORIGINAL MISSION?
MISSION? >> THE MISSION
DOESN'T CHANGE
>> THE MISSION DOESN'T
CHANGE FOR "SESAME STREET."
FOR "SESAME STREET." THIS
IS A WAY FOR THEM TO
THIS IS A WAY FOR THEM TO
CONTINUE TO DO GREAT WORK.
CONTINUE TO DO GREAT WORK. THEY
TAKE CHILD DEVELOPMENT VERY
THEY TAKE CHILD DEVELOPMENT
VERY SERIOUSLY.
SERIOUSLY. WHEN I
WAS THERE, WE DID
WHEN I WAS THERE, WE DID
PROGRAMS WITH MILITARY FAMILIES.
THEY'RE DOING THINGS AROUND THE
WORLD A LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T DO
TO PROMOTE EDUCATION, HBO GAVE
THEM RESOURCES TO DO THAT AND
STAY WITH A NONPROFIT MISSION.
IT'S JUST THEY WILL BE ON OTHER
IT'S JUST THEY WILL
BE ON OTHER NETWORKS.
NETWORKS. THEY HAVE
BEEN ON OTHER NETWORKS
THEY HAVE BEEN ON OTHER NETWORKS
FOR A LONG TIME, CABLE CHANNELS
WITH NOGGIN AND SPROUT.
SPECIALS WITH NBC AND ABC.
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY A NEW
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY
A NEW THING.
THING. TODAY, JUDY,
I THINK IT'S REALLY
TODAY, JUDY, I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT THAT THESE EDUCATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS ARE ON AS MANY
PLATFORMS AS THEY CAN, INCLUDING
PBS WHICH HAS ITS OWN STREAMING
AND OWN DEALS WITH OVER THE TOP
PLATFORMS WHICH THEY HAVE TO BE
PLATFORMS WHICH
THEY HAVE TO BE IN.
IN. THEY'VE GOT TO
REACH AUDIENCES
THEY'VE GOT TO REACH AUDIENCES
WHERE THEY ARE, WHERE THEY'RE
NOT GOING TO MEET THEIR
NONPROFIT MISSION.
NONPROFIT MISSION. >> BUT
WHAT ABOUT THE KIDS WHO
>> BUT WHAT ABOUT THE KIDS WHO
MAY NOT HAVE ACCESS TO PAY --
WHO DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO PAY
WHO DON'T HAVE
ACCESS TO PAY CABLE?
CABLE? YES, THEY WILL
BE ABLE TO SEE IT
YES, THEY WILL BE ABLE TO
SEE IT NINE MONTHS LATER.
NINE MONTHS LATER. IT'S
ALMOST AS IF ARE YOU
IT'S ALMOST AS IF ARE YOU
CREATING TWO DIFFERENT CLASSES
OF PROGRAMMING FOR CHILDREN?
>> YOU COULD LOOK AT IT THAT
>> YOU COULD LOOK
AT IT THAT WAY.
WAY. I DON'T.
I DON'T. KIDS, I DON'T
THINK, COULD TELL
KIDS, I DON'T THINK, COULD TELL
THE DIFFERENCE WHETHER SOMETHING
IS IN MARCH OR DECEMBER.
IS IN MARCH OR DECEMBER. IT'S
STILL FRESH AND NEW TO THEM
IT'S STILL FRESH AND NEW TO THEM
AND WILL BE MADE AVAILABLE FREE
AND WILL BE MADE AVAILABLE
FREE OF CHARGE.
OF CHARGE. THAT'S WHY
PUBLIC TELEVISION IS
THAT'S WHY PUBLIC TELEVISION IS
IMPORTANT IIT CS REATES EQUITY
IMPORTANT IIT CS REATES
EQUITY AND ACCESS.
AND ACCESS. ALSO THE
LOCALISM, WHETHER
ALSO THE LOCALISM, WHETHER
OKLAHOMA, OAKLAND OR OMAHA, YOU
KNOW, THEY'RE ABLE TO BUILD
OUTREACH PROGRAMS FOR KIDS
TEACHING LITERACY AND NUMERICY
TEACHING LITERACY AND
NUMERICY AND SCIENCE.
AND SCIENCE. THAT
DOESN'T CHANGE.
THAT DOESN'T CHANGE. THIS
IS ADDED TO THE PROCESS
THIS IS ADDED TO THE PROCESS
RATHER THAN SUBTRACT IT.
RATHER THAN SUBTRACT IT. >>
Woodruff: I KNOW YOU'RE NOT
>> Woodruff: I KNOW YOU'RE NOT
AT THE WORKSHOP ANYMORE, YOU
AT THE WORKSHOP ANYMORE,
YOU LEFT IN 2011.
LEFT IN 2011. DO YOU
THINK WE'LL SEE MORE
DO YOU THINK WE'LL SEE MORE
CHANGES LIKE THIS IN CHILDREN'S
CHANGES LIKE THIS IN
CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING?
PROGRAMMING? >> YEAH,
I THINK IT'S A
>> YEAH, I THINK IT'S A
DIFFERENT WORLD NOW AND PARENTS
ARE NOT PLOPPING THEIR KIDS DOWN
IN FRONT OF NICKELODEON AS THEY
WERE TEN YEARS AGO OR MTV FOR
WERE TEN YEARS AGO OR
MTV FOR TEENAGERS.
TEENAGERS. THIS IS
WORLD IS MUCH MORE A
THIS IS WORLD IS MUCH MORE A
LA CARTE, AND I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT WE RECOIZEGN THAT IN
SHORT-FORM VIDEOS, LONG-FORM
SHORT-FORM VIDEOS,
LONG-FORM VIDEOS, TEXT.
VIDEOS, TEXT. IT'S
CHANGING EDUCATION, IT'S
IT'S CHANGING EDUCATION, IT'S
CHANGING TELL VIES, IT'S
CHANGING HOW WE ALL RECEIVE AND
CHANGING HOW WE ALL RECEIVE
AND PROCESS CONTENT.
PROCESS CONTENT. THAT IS
NOT GOING TO SLOW DOWN.
THAT IS NOT GOING TO SLOW DOWN.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING, FOR OUR
HOME, PBS, HOW BIG A LOSS IS
HOME, PBS, HOW BIG
A LOSS IS THIS?
THIS? WHAT ARE THE CONSEQUENCES?
WHAT ARE THE CONSEQUENCES? >>
WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S
SOMETHING THEY SHOULD BE PROUD
THAT "SESAME STREET" HAS HAD A
45-YEAR RUN AND WILL CONTINUE
FOR A VERY LONG TIME.
FOR A VERY LONG TIME. IT
WILL ALWAYS BE PART OF PBS,
IT WILL ALWAYS BE PART OF PBS,
AND IT WILL CONTINUE THAT
LONG-STANDING RELATIONSHIP.
AND PBS, AS I SAID, HAS GROWN
BEYOND "SESAME STREET" AND THEY
HAVE A LOT TO BE PROUD OF, JUDY.
THEY HAVE 19 OTHER SHOWS AND A
LOT MORE PRODUCERS WHO WANT TO
DO GREAT EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
FOR THEM AND MORE POWER TO THEM.
I THINK THIS IS A GREAT DAYFOR
CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING.
CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING. >>
Woodruff: GOOD TO REMIND
>> Woodruff: GOOD TO REMIND
EVERYBODY WHO WERE LAMENTING THE
COMING LOSS OF "SESAME STREET."
GARY KNELL, GREAT TO SEE YOU
GARY KNELL, GREAT
TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
AGAIN. THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
IT'S A VERY DIFFERENT
CELEBRATION OF MUSIC FROM OUR
CELEBRATION OF MUSIC
FROM OUR LAST STORY.
LAST STORY. OVER
3,000 AMATEUR AND
OVER 3,000 AMATEUR AND
PROFESSIONAL FLUTISTS HAVE
DESCENDED ON WASHINGTON, D.C..
FOR THE 43RD ANNUAL NATIONAL
FLUTE ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE,
SETTING OFF A SYMPHONY OF SOUND.
SETTING OFF A SYMPHONY OF
SOUND. >> I'M STEVE KUJALA.
>> I'M STEVE KUJALA. I PLAY
THE FLUTE, PICCOLO, AND
I PLAY THE FLUTE, PICCOLO, AND
ALL THE ETHNIC FLUTES ON MOVIES
AND TELEVISION SOUNDTRACKS IN
AND TELEVISION SOUNDTRACKS
IN LOS ANGELES.
LOS ANGELES. I'M HERE
FOR THE SAME REASON
I'M HERE FOR THE SAME REASON
EVERYONE ELSE IS HERE IS JUST TO
DOWN HERE IN THE EXHIBIT HALL,
THERE ARE PEOPLE "TRYING ON"
THERE ARE PEOPLE
"TRYING ON" FLUTES.
FLUTES. THEY ARE
LOOKING TO IMPROVE ON
THEY ARE LOOKING TO IMPROVE ON
THE INSTRUMENT THEY ALREADY HAVE
OR MAYBE SOMETHING THAT'S MORE
BRILLIANT, OR HAS A DIFFERENT
TONE QUALITY, OR HAS BETTER HEAD
JOINT OR DIFFERENT APPARATUS.
THE FLUTE IS NOW OFFICIALLY THE
OLDEST INSTRUMENT KNOWN TO
OLDEST INSTRUMENT
KNOWN TO MANKIND.
MANKIND. EVERY CULTURE
HAS THEIR ITS OWN
EVERY CULTURE HAS
THEIR ITS OWN FLUTE.
FLUTE.
>> MY NAME IS PATTI ADAMS AND
I'M A CLASSICAL FLUTIST.
I'M A CLASSICAL FLUTIST. I
PLAY WITH THE LOUISIANA
I PLAY WITH THE LOUISIANA
PHILHARMONIC IN NEW ORLEANS,
PHILHARMONIC IN NEW
ORLEANS, LOUISIANA.
LOUISIANA. I THINK
A POP UP CITY IS A
I THINK A POP UP CITY IS A
PERFECT DESCRIPTION FOR OUR
PERFECT DESCRIPTION FOR
OUR NATIONAL CONVENTION.
NATIONAL CONVENTION. ALL
OF THESE PEOPLE HAVE
ALL OF THESE PEOPLE HAVE
DIFFERENT INTERESTS COMING
TOGETHER FOR A FOUR-DAY FLUTE
TOGETHER FOR A FOUR-DAY
FLUTE BLOW-OUT.
BLOW-OUT. SO THERE
IS SOMETHING ABOUT
SO THERE IS SOMETHING ABOUT
FLOATING UP THERE ON THE VERY
TOP THAT COLOR THAT MAKES THE
FLUTE FOR ME SO POWERFUL.
FLUTE FOR ME SO POWERFUL. >>
I'M ELIZABETH SHUHAN AND I'M
>> I'M ELIZABETH SHUHAN AND
I'M FROM ITHACA NEW YORK.
FROM ITHACA NEW YORK. THE
FLUTE CAN PRODUCE A VARIETY
THE FLUTE CAN PRODUCE
A VARIETY OF COLORS.
OF COLORS. WE ARE WELL
KNOWN IN NATURE AS
WE ARE WELL KNOWN IN NATURE AS
THE BIRD SO WE CAN IMITATE BIRDS
QUITE EASILY BUT WE CAN ALSO
QUITE EASILY BUT WE
CAN ALSO PLAY WATER.
PLAY WATER. WE CAN BE THE AIR.
WE CAN BE THE AIR. THIS
INSTRUMENT AND THE PLAYER
THIS INSTRUMENT AND THE PLAYER
CAN PRODUCE ALL OF THAT
ABSOLUTELY AND YOU ARE INSPIRED
TO DO THAT WHEN YOU'RE
TO DO THAT WHEN
YOU'RE PERFORMING.
PERFORMING.
>> Woodruff: AT THE CLOSING
CEREMONY SUNDAY, ALL 3,000
FLUTISTS ARE INVITED TO PLAY
FLUTISTS ARE INVITED
TO PLAY TOGETHER.
TOGETHER. NOW THAT'S SOME BAND!
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: WE EXPLORE THE CULTURAL
AND RELIGIOUS MOTIVATIONS OF
WEARING A NIQAB, THE FULL FACE
VEIL WITH A NARROW SLIT AT THE
EYES, ESPECIALLY AMONG WESTERN
EYES, ESPECIALLY AMONG
WESTERN MUSLIM WOMEN.
MUSLIM WOMEN. THAT'S
ON OUR PODCAST
THAT'S ON OUR PODCAST
"SHORTWAVE."
"SHORTWAVE." FIND OUT
HOW TO LISTEN, ON OUR
FIND OUT HOW TO LISTEN,
ON OUR HOME PAGE.
HOME PAGE. THAT'S
pbs.org/newshour.
THAT'S pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS
FROM OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES. GWEN
IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH
AIRS LATER THIS EVENING.
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
HERE'S A PREVIEW: >>
Ifill: CANDIDATES LAUNCH
>> Ifill: CANDIDATES LAUNCH
THEMSELVES INTO IOWA THIS
WEEKEND, SEARCHING FOR VOTERS
AND A CORN DOG OR TWO AS
ELECTION 2016 GETS REAL.
ELECTION 2016 GETS REAL. PLUS,
FOREIGN POLICY VICTORIES
PLUS, FOREIGN POLICY VICTORIES
TURN INTO CHALLENGES IN IRAN,
TURN INTO CHALLENGES
IN IRAN, AND CUBA.
AND CUBA. TONIGHT ON
"WASHINGTON WEEK."
TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON
WEEK." JUDY?
JUDY? >> Woodruff:
ON PBS NEWSHOUR
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY AND SUNDAY, TWO
WEEKEND SATURDAY AND SUNDAY,
TWO REPORTS FROM HAWAII, WHERE
REPORTS FROM HAWAII, WHERE
RESIDENTS ARE SPENDING MONEY TO
RESIDENTS ARE SPENDING
MONEY TO GO SOLAR.
GO SOLAR. BUT HOW
PREPARED IS THE LOCAL
BUT HOW PREPARED IS THE
LOCAL POWER COMPANY?
POWER COMPANY? ON MONDAY
WE KICK OFF A WEEKLONG
ON MONDAY WE KICK OFF A WEEKLONG
SERIES ON INNOVATIVE IDEAS TO
SERIES ON INNOVATIVE IDEAS
TO IMPROVE HIGHER EDUCATION.
IMPROVE HIGHER EDUCATION.
HARI SREENIVASAN GIVES US AN
HARI SREENIVASAN GIVES
US AN EARLY LOOK.
EARLY LOOK. (SINGING)
(SINGING) >> Sreenivasan:
COMING TO THE
>> Sreenivasan: COMING TO THE
PBS "NewsHour", ECONOMISTS SAY
TWO-THIRDS OF THE COUNTRY'S
WORKFORCE WILL SOON NEED A
COLLEGE DEGREE OR PROFESSIONAL
COLLEGE DEGREE OR
PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATE.
CERTIFICATE. ARE
COLLEGES DOING ENOUGH TO
ARE COLLEGES DOING ENOUGH TO
PREPARE THE NEXT GENERATION OF
PREPARE THE NEXT
GENERATION OF GRADUATES?
GRADUATES? >> PUBLIC
RESEARCH UNIVERSITIES
>> PUBLIC RESEARCH UNIVERSITIES
HAVE BECOME INCREASINGLY
EXCLUSIVE. >> COLLEGE
ALSO ARE EXITIVE GAIN
>> COLLEGE ALSO ARE EXITIVE GAIN
TO GET HIGH-PAYING STUDENTS.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE SOME
FAMILIES LEFT BEHIND?
FAMILIES LEFT BEHIND? >>
COLLEGE IS REALLY EXPENSIVE.
>> COLLEGE IS REALLY EXPENSIVE.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE I GET A
DEGREE TO SUPPORT MYSELF.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW ARE
COLLEGES MAKING A DIFFERENCE?
>> TALENT IS A FUNCTION OF YOUR
>> TALENT IS A FUNCTION OF
YOUR ABILITY AND DRIVE AS AN
ABILITY AND DRIVE AS AN
INDIVIDUAL, NOT INCOME.
INDIVIDUAL, NOT INCOME. >>
Sreenivasan: ALL THAT AND
>> Sreenivasan: ALL THAT AND
MORE ON OUR SERIES ON CLOSING
MORE ON OUR SERIES ON
CLOSING THE GRADUATION GAP.
THE GRADUATION GAP. >>
Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S
THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. HAVE A
GREAT WEEKEND THANK YOU
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND THANK
YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.